Base64 (URL) Encoding / Decoding
=================================

JOSE standards rely heavily on the URL-safe variant of Base64. Thus, José
provides a set of functions for manipulating values between their encoded
and decoded forms.

.. c:function:: size_t jose_b64_dlen(size_t elen)

  Given an encoded length, returns a decoded length.

  This function is often used to allocate buffers to store a decoded value.

.. c:function:: size_t jose_b64_elen(size_t dlen)

  Given a decoded length, returns an encoded length.

  This function is often used to allocate buffers to store an encoded value.

.. c:function:: bool jose_b64_decode(const char *enc, uint8_t dec[])

  Decodes a Base64 (URL) encoded C string into a byte array.

  The dec buffer MUST be at least jose_b64_dlen(strlen(enc)) bytes.

  Returns true on success or false if a decoding error occurs.

.. c:function:: bool jose_b64_decode_json(const json_t *enc, uint8_t dec[])

  Decodes a Base64 (URL) encoded JSON string into a byte array.

  The dec buffer MUST be at least jose_b64_dlen(json_string_length(enc)) bytes.

  Returns true on success or false if a decoding error occurs.

.. c:function:: json_t *jose_b64_decode_json_load(const json_t *enc, int flags)

  Decodes a Base64 (URL) encoded JSON string and parses the resulting JSON.

  This function is used to decode values like the JWS Protected Header which
  occurs in the following format: BASE64URL(UTF8(JWS Protected Header)).

  The flags are passed to json_loadb() unmodified.

  Returns a JSON value on success or NULL on error.

.. c:function:: void jose_b64_encode(const uint8_t dec[], size_t len, char enc[])

  Encodes a byte array to a Base64 (URL) C string.

  The enc buffer MUST Be at least jose_b64_elen(len) + 1 bytes.

.. c:function:: json_t *jose_b64_encode_json(const uint8_t dec[], size_t len)

  Encodes a byte array to a Base64 (URL) JSON string.

  Returns a JSON string containing the encoding or NULL on failure.

.. c:function:: json_t *jose_b64_encode_json_dump(const json_t *dec, int flags)

  Serializes a JSON value and then encodes it to a Base64 (URL) JSON string.

  The flags are passed to json_load_callback() unmodified.

  Returns a JSON string containing the encoding or NULL on failure.
